README.md, before:

## County/City Driving Distance

#### Author: Jeff Erickson `<jeff@erick.so>`
#### Date: 2014-07-04

### Introduction

This is a simple group of scripts to ultimately generate a database that has the driving distance (in KM, according to Google Maps API) between every county population centroid in the lower 48 and each major city with over 2 million people in its primary statistical area.

### Instructions

The R script (`create-db.r`) generates a database with one row per large city/county center combination in the lower 48 states.

The Python script (`generate-driving-dist.py`), per run, finds a row in the database that doesn't yet have a distance calculated, calculates the distance, and then saves it back to the database. It is meant to be run repetitively (as a cron job, for example).

The final product will be a complete SQL database with all of the distance information. I will post the final database to this repo once it is complete.

### Time Estimate

There are 102,597 combinations that need distances calculated. Google Maps API limits you to 2,500 queries a day. Therefore the estimated run time is 42 days.

### References

County Density/Distance/Population Map. Erickson, Jeffrey P. 2014. [(link)](https://github.com/jefferickson/county-dendist-map)

Commit message:

added further instructions to README, as well as link to the log file.

README.md, after:

## County/City Driving Distance

#### Author: Jeff Erickson `<jeff@erick.so>`
#### Date: 2014-07-04

### Introduction

This is a simple group of scripts to ultimately generate a database that has the driving distance (in KM, according to Google Maps API) between every county population centroid in the lower 48 and each major city with over 2 million people in its primary statistical area.

### Instructions

The R script (`create-db.r`) generates a database with one row per large city/county center combination in the lower 48 states.

The Python script (`generate-driving-dist.py`), per run, finds a row in the database that doesn't yet have a distance calculated, calculates the distance, and then saves it back to the database. It is meant to be run repetitively (as a cron job, for example).

Here is a sample cron tab:  
```
* * * * * /path/to/python3 /path/to/generate-driving-dist.py /path/to/database.db >> /path/to/log  
*/2 * * * * /path/to/python3 /path/to/generate-driving-dist.py /path/to/database/db >> /path/to/log
```

The final product will be a complete SQL database with all of the distance information. I will post the final database to this repo once it is complete.

### Time Estimate

There are 102,597 combinations that need distances calculated. Google Maps API limits you to 2,500 queries a day, but because of the limitations of cron jobs, we will run 2160 per day. Therefore the estimated run time is 48 days.

In order to check on the progress, see [this log file](http://erick.so/n/distlog).

### References

County Density/Distance/Population Map. Erickson, Jeffrey P. 2014. [(link)](https://github.com/jefferickson/county-dendist-map)
